Dwarves									Elves
Description: Dwarves are a short, stocky race; both			Description: Elves are a slender race, with both males
male and female Dwarves stand around four feet tall			and females standing around five feet tall and weighing
and typically weigh around 120 pounds. Their long			around 130 pounds. Most have dark hair, with little or
hair and thick beards are dark brown, gray or black.			no body or facial hair. Their skin is pale, and they have
They take great pride in their beards, sometimes			pointed ears and delicate features. Elves are lithe and
braiding or forking them. They have a fair to ruddy			graceful. They have keen eyesight and hearing. Elves
complexion. Dwarves have stout frames and a strong,			are typically inquisitive, passionate, self-assured, and
muscular build. They are rugged and resilient, with the			sometimes haughty. Their typical lifespan is a dozen
capacity to endure great hardships. Dwarves are				centuries or more.
typically practical, stubborn and courageous. They can
also be introspective, suspicious and possessive. They			Restrictions: Elves may become Clerics, Fighters,
have a lifespan of three to four centuries.				Magic-Users or Thieves; they are also allowed to
									combine the classes of Fighter and Magic-User, and of
Restrictions: Dwarves may become Clerics, Fighters,			Magic-User and Thief. They are required to have a minimum
or Thieves. They are required to have a minimum				Intelligence of 9. Due to their generally delicate nature,
Constitution of 9. Due to their generally dour				they may not have a Constitution higher than 17. Elves
dispositions, they may not have a Charisma higher than			never roll larger than six-sided dice (d6) for hit points.
17. They may not employ Large weapons more than
four feet in length (specifically, two-handed swords,			Special Abilities: All Elves have Darkvision with a
polearms, and longbows).						60' range. They are able to find secret doors
									more often than normal (1-2 on 1d6 rather than the
Special Abilities: All Dwarves have Darkvision with a			usual 1 on 1d6). An Elf is so observant that one has a
60' range, and are able to detect slanting passages,			1 on 1d6 chance to find a secret door with a cursory
stonework traps, shifting walls and new construction			look. Elves are immune to the paralyzing attack of
on a roll of 1-2 on 1d6; a search must be performed			ghouls. Also, they are less likely to be surprised in
before this roll may be made.						combat, reducing the chance of surprise by 1 in 1d6.

Saving Throws: Dwarves save at +4 vs. Death Ray or			Saving Throws: Elves save at +1 vs. Paralysis or
Poison, Magic Wands, Paralysis or Petrify, and Spells,			Petrify, and +2 vs. Magic Wands and Spells.
and at +3 vs. Dragon Breath.



Halflings								Humans
Description: Halflings are small, slightly stocky folk			Description: Humans come in a broad variety of
who stand around three feet tall and weigh about 60			shapes and sizes; the Game Master must decide what
pounds. They have curly brown hair on their heads			sorts of Humans live in the game world. An average
and feet, but rarely have facial hair. They are usually			Human male in good health stands around six feet tall
fair skinned, often with ruddy cheeks. Halflings are			and weighs about 175 pounds, while females average
remarkably rugged for their small size. They are			five feet nine inches and weigh around 145 pounds.
dexterous and nimble, capable of moving quietly and			Most Humans live around 75 years.
remaining very still. They usually go barefoot.
Halflings are typically outgoing, unassuming and good-			Restrictions: Humans may be any single class. They
natured. They live about a hundred years.				have no minimum or maximum ability score
									requirements.
Restrictions: Halflings may become Clerics, Fighters
or Thieves. They are required to have a minimum				Special Abilities: Humans learn unusually quickly,
Dexterity of 9. Due to their small stature, they may not		gaining a bonus of 10% to all experience points earned.
have a Strength higher than 17. Halflings never roll
larger than six-sided dice (d6) for hit points regardless		Saving Throws: Humans are the "standard," and thus
of class. Halflings may not use Large weapons, and			have no saving throw bonuses.
must wield Medium weapons with both hands.

Special Abilities: Halflings are unusually accurate with
all sorts of ranged weapons, gaining a +1 attack bonus
when employing them. When attacked in melee by
creatures larger than man-sized, Halflings gain a +2
bonus to their Armor Class. Halflings are quick-witted,
adding +1 to Initiative die rolls. In their preferred forest
terrain, they are able to hide very effectively; so long as
they remain still there is only a 10% chance they will be
detected. Even indoors, in dungeons or in non-
preferred terrain they are able to hide such that there is
only a 30% chance of detection. Note that a Halfling
Thief will roll only once, using either the Thief ability or
the Halfling ability, whichever is better.

Saving Throws: Halflings save at +4 vs. Death Ray or
Poison, Magic Wands, Paralysis or Petrify, and Spells,
and at +3 vs. Dragon Breath.